




Phonological segments
=====================


We model the set of phonological segments as a hierarchy of natural
classes. Each node of the hierarchy is a pair of an extent (a set of
phonological segments) and an intent (the features common to all the
segments). The ``Segment`` class represents a node of this hierarchy,
either a single segment or a natural class.

.. code:: python 
    
    >>> from representations import segments    
    >>> %pylab inline



.. parsed-literal::
    :class: output

    /usr/local/lib/python3.4/dist-packages/matplotlib/\_\_init\_\_.py:913: UserWarning: axes.color\_cycle is deprecated and replaced with axes.prop\_cycle; please use the latter.
      warnings.warn(self.msg\_depr % (key, alt\_key))


.. parsed-literal::
    :class: output

    Populating the interactive namespace from numpy and matplotlib



Segment pool
------------


We read the segment from an external file. The file's format is
described in the `Data Shape <../doc/datashape.html>`__ section of the
documentation.

Internally, Segments denoted by multiple characters (such as
diphtongues) are replaced each by a unique placeholder character.
Segments are also normalised : if multiple lines define the same
features, only one of them is kept.

In our french data a few oppositions are neutralized this way : [e] and
[ɛ] are normalized as [E], [o] and [ɔ] as [O], and [ø] and [œ] as [Ø].
The feature file defines the same features for each triplet.

We print below the list of a few segments and natural classes inferred,
with the minimum features that define them:

.. code:: python 
    
    >>> features_file_name = "../Data/Vlexique/frenchipa.csv"    
    >>> segments.initialize(features_file_name,sep="\t")    
    >>> pool = segments.Segment.show_pool().split("\n")    
    >>> print("\n".join(pool[:10]),    
    ...       "\n... {} other segments ...\n".format(len(pool)-30),    
    ...       "\n".join(pool[-20:]))    




.. parsed-literal::
    :class: output

    Reading table
    Aliasing multi-chars segments
    Normalizing identical segments
    j = [+son -syl -cons +cont -nas +haut -bas -arr -rond -ant -cor +vois +rel.ret.]
    f = [-son -syl +cons +cont -nas -haut -arr +ant -cor -vois +rel.ret.]
    p = [-son -syl +cons -cont -nas -haut -arr +ant -cor -vois -rel.ret.]
    ɥ = [+son -syl -cons +cont -nas +haut -bas -arr +rond -ant -cor +vois +rel.ret.]
    ɲ = [+son -syl +cons +cont +nas +haut -arr -ant -cor +vois -rel.ret.]
    b = [-son -syl +cons -cont -nas -haut -arr +ant -cor +vois -rel.ret.]
    w = [+son -syl -cons +cont -nas +haut -bas +arr +rond -ant -cor +vois +rel.ret.]
    œ̃ (Œ) = [+son +syl -cons +cont +nas -haut +bas -arr +rond +vois +rel.ret.]
    k = [-son -syl +cons -cont -nas +haut +arr -ant -cor -vois -rel.ret.]
    ŋ = [+son -syl +cons +cont +nas +haut +arr -ant -cor +vois -rel.ret.] 
    ... 406 other segments ...
     [EOaijluwyØɑ̃ɔ̃œ̃ɥʁɛ̃] ([EOaijluwyØãõŒɥʁꞓ]) = [+son +cont +vois +rel.ret.]
    [EOaflmnsvzØɑ̃ɔ̃œ̃ʁɛ̃] ([EOaflmnsvzØãõŒʁꞓ]) = [+cont -haut]
    [EbdijlmnvyzØœ̃ɥɲʒɛ̃] ([EbdijlmnvyzØŒɥɲʒꞓ]) = [-arr +vois]
    [EbdfijlpstvyzØɥʃʒ] = [-nas -arr]
    [bdfgjklpstvwzɥʁʃʒ] = [-syl -nas]
    [EOabdgijluvwyzØɥʁʒ] = [-nas +vois]
    [bdfgklmnpstvzŋɲʁʃʒ] = C
    [EfijlmnsvyzØœ̃ɥɲʃʒɛ̃] ([EfijlmnsvyzØŒɥɲʃʒꞓ]) = [+cont -arr]
    [EOafijlsuvwyzØɥʁʃʒ] = [+cont -nas +rel.ret.]
    [EOaijluvwyzØɑ̃ɔ̃œ̃ɥʁʒɛ̃] ([EOaijluvwyzØãõŒɥʁʒꞓ]) = [+cont +vois +rel.ret.]
    [EOaijlmnuwyØɑ̃ɔ̃ŋœ̃ɥɲʁɛ̃] ([EOaijlmnuwyØãõŋŒɥɲʁꞓ]) = [+son]
    [EOabdflmnpstvzØɑ̃ɔ̃œ̃ʁɛ̃] ([EOabdflmnpstvzØãõŒʁꞓ]) = [-haut]
    [bdfgjklmnpstvwzŋɥɲʁʃʒ] = [-syl]
    [EOafijlsuvwyzØɑ̃ɔ̃œ̃ɥʁʃʒɛ̃] ([EOafijlsuvwyzØãõŒɥʁʃʒꞓ]) = [+rel.ret.]
    [EbdfijlmnpstvyzØœ̃ɥɲʃʒɛ̃] ([EbdfijlmnpstvyzØŒɥɲʃʒꞓ]) = [-arr]
    [EOaijlmnuvwyzØɑ̃ɔ̃ŋœ̃ɥɲʁʒɛ̃] ([EOaijlmnuvwyzØãõŋŒɥɲʁʒꞓ]) = [+cont +vois]
    [EOabdfgijklpstuvwyzØɥʁʃʒ] = [-nas]
    [EOabdgijlmnuvwyzØɑ̃ɔ̃ŋœ̃ɥɲʁʒɛ̃] ([EOabdgijlmnuvwyzØãõŋŒɥɲʁʒꞓ]) = [+vois]
    [EOafijlmnsuvwyzØɑ̃ɔ̃ŋœ̃ɥɲʁʃʒɛ̃] ([EOafijlmnsuvwyzØãõŋŒɥɲʁʃʒꞓ]) = [+cont]
    [EOabdfgijklmnpstuvwyzØɑ̃ɔ̃ŋœ̃ɥɲʁʃʒɛ̃] ([EOabdfgijklmnpstuvwyzØãõŋŒɥɲʁʃʒꞓ]) = X



Getting a segment
-----------------


In most of the scripts, segments are represented by strings. To get a
``Segment`` object from the string, use the class function
``Segment.get()`` on a string representing either the segment or natural
classe's chars, or its features.

Note that "V" and "C" were defined in the segment file as shorthands for
vowels and consonants, and because of that these description replace the
features when printing the corresponding ``Segment``\ s.

.. code:: python 
    
    >>> a = segments.Segment.get("a")    
    >>> print(repr(a))    
    >>> example_segment = segments.Segment.get("iEØõã")    
    >>> print(repr(example_segment))    
    >>> example_segment = segments.Segment.get(("+cons",))    
    >>> print(repr(example_segment))



.. parsed-literal::
    :class: output

    a = [+son +syl -cons +cont -nas -haut +bas +arr -rond +vois +rel.ret.]
    [EOaiuyØɑ̃ɔ̃œ̃ɛ̃] ([EOaiuyØãõŒꞓ]) = V
    [bdfgklmnpstvzŋɲʁʃʒ] = C



By calling the function with "iEØõã" we obtained their smallest common
natural class, which is "[EOaiuyØɑ̃ɔ̃œ̃ɛ̃ə]". Writing natural classes in
brackets wil allow us to use them as regex character classes (matching
any of the characters in the brackets).

Segments have an alias and a set of features:

.. code:: python 
    
    >>> print("alias for the segment 'a' :", a.alias)    
    >>> print("features for the segment 'a' :", a.features)



.. parsed-literal::
    :class: output

    alias for the segment 'a' : a
    features for the segment 'a' : {'-rond', '+arr', '+vois', '-haut', '-cons', '+syl', '-nas', '+son', '+cont', '+rel.ret.', '+bas'}



Intersection of Segments
------------------------


We can generalize two segments to find their smallest common natural
class:

.. code:: python 
    
    >>> print("intersect(\"gtf\") = ",segments.Segment.intersect("gtf"))



.. parsed-literal::
    :class: output

    intersect("gtf") =  [bdfgkpstvzʃʒ]



-  `Back to the documentation's index <../doc/index.html>`__
